docs-first rough concept for 3dsmax host integration (#4368)
ynput/OpenPype: website/docs/artist_hosts_3dsmax.md

---
id: artist_hosts_3dsmax
title: 3dsmax
sidebar_label: 3dsmax
---

## Still Work In Progress Doc

-   [Set Context](artist_tools_context_manager)
-   [Work Files](artist_tools_workfiles)
-   [Create](artist_tools_creator)
-   [Load](artist_tools_loader)
-   [Manage (Inventory)](artist_tools_inventory)
-   [Publish](artist_tools_publisher)
-   [Library Loader](artist_tools_library_loader)

## Working with OpenPype in 3dsmax

OpenPype is here to ease you the burden of working on project with lots of
collaborators, worrying about naming, setting stuff, browsing through endless
directories, loading and exporting and so on. To achieve that, OpenPype is using
concept of being _"data driven"_. This means that what happens when publishing
is influenced by data in scene. This can by slightly confusing so let's get to
it with few examples.

## Setting scene data

Blender settings concerning framerate, resolution and frame range are handled
by OpenPype. If set correctly in Ftrack, Blender will automatically set the 
values for you.

## Publishing models

### Intro

> Publishing models in Blender is pretty straightforward. Create your model as you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Publishing models in 3ds Max is pretty straightforward. Create your model as you
```

need. You might need to adhere to specifications of your studio that can be different
between studios and projects but by default your geometry does not need any
other convention.

> ![Model example](assets/blender-model_example.jpg)

Reviewer: Blender image?

### Creating instance

Now create **Model instance** from it to let OpenPype know what in the scene you want to
publish. Go **OpenPype → Create... → Model**.

![Model create instance](assets/blender-model_create_instance.jpg)

> `Asset` field is a name of asset you are working on - it should be already filled
> with correct name as you've started Blender or switched context to specific asset. You
> can edit that field to change it to different asset (but that one must already exists).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Asset` field is a name of asset you are working on - it should be already filled
with correct name as you've started 3ds Max or switched context to specific asset. You
can edit that field to change it to different asset (but that one must already exists).
```

Name your subset like `main_LOD1`. Important part is that `_LOD1`. You can have as many LODs as you need.
::: -->

Read-only field just under it show final subset name, adding subset field to
name of the group you have selected.

`Use selection` checkbox will use whatever you have selected in Outliner to be
wrapped in Model instance. This is usually what you want. Click on **Create** button.

You'll notice then after you've created new Model instance, there is a new 
collection in Outliner called after your asset and subset, in our case it is
`character1_modelDefault`. The assets selected when creating the Model instance
are linked in the new collection.

And that's it, you have your first model ready to publish.

Now save your scene (if you didn't do it already). You will notice that path
in Save dialog is already set to place where scenes related to modeling task on
your asset should reside. As in our case we are working on asset called
**character1** and on task **modeling**, path relative to your project directory will be
`project_XY/assets/character1/work/modeling`. The default name for the file will
be `project_XY_asset_task_version`, so in our case 

> `simonetest_character1_modeling_v001.blend`. Let's save it.

Reviewer: Blender filename.

> ![Model create instance](assets/blender-save_modelling_file.jpg)

Reviewer: Blender image

### Publishing models

Now let's publish it. Go **OpenPype → Publish...**. You will be presented with following window:

> ![Model publish](assets/blender-model_pre_publish.jpg)

Reviewer: Blender image

Note that content of this window can differs by your pipeline configuration.
For more detail see [Publisher](artist_tools_publisher).

Items in left column are instances you will be publishing. You can disable them
by clicking on square next to them. White filled square indicate they are ready for
publishing, red means something went wrong either during collection phase
or publishing phase. Empty one with gray text is disabled.

> See that in this case we are publishing from the scene file
> `simonetest_character1_modeling_v001.blend` the Blender model named 
> `character1_modelDefault`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See that in this case we are publishing from the scene file
`simonetest_character1_modeling_v001.3ds` the 3ds Max model named 
`character1_modelDefault`.
```

![Blender - Simple model for rigging](assets/blender-rig_model_setup.jpg)

I have now created the armature `RIG_RobotArm`. While the naming is not important,
you can just adhere to your naming conventions, the hierarchy is. Once the models
are skinned to the armature, the geometry must be organized in a separate Collection.
In this case, I have the armature in the main Collection, and the geometry in 
the `Geometry` Collection.

![Blender - Rig Hierarchy Example](assets/blender-rig_hierarchy_example.jpg)

When you've prepared your hierarchy, it's time to create *Rig instance* in OpenPype.
Select your whole rig hierarchy and go **OpenPype → Create...**. Select **Rig**.

![Blender - Rig Hierarchy Example](assets/blender-rig_create.jpg)

A new collection named after the selected Asset and Subset should have been created.
In our case, it is `character1_rigDefault`. All the selected armature and models
have been linked in this new collection. You should end up with something like
this:

![Blender - Rig Hierarchy Example](assets/blender-rig_hierarchy_before_publish.jpg)

### Publishing rigs

Publishing rig is done in same way as publishing everything else. Save your scene

> and go **OpenPype → Publish**. For more detail see [Publisher](artist_tools_publisher).

Author: @BigRoy sorry its a part of our internal training we are aware of the issues :)

Thx anyway...and sorry for bothering you!
